NSEQ(1)                             OpenSSL                            NSEQ(1)



NAME
       openssl-nseq, nseq - create or examine a Netscape certificate sequence

SYNOPSIS
       openssl nseq [-help] [-in filename] [-out filename] [-toseq]

DESCRIPTION
       The nseq command takes a file containing a Netscape certificate
       sequence and prints out the certificates contained in it or takes a
       file of certificates and converts it into a Netscape certificate
       sequence.

OPTIONS
       -help
           Print out a usage message.

       -in filename
           This specifies the input filename to read or standard input if this
           option is not specified.

       -out filename
           Specifies the output filename or standard output by default.

       -toseq
           Normally a Netscape certificate sequence will be input and the
           output is the certificates contained in it. With the -toseq option
           the situation is reversed: a Netscape certificate sequence is
           created from a file of certificates.

EXAMPLES
       Output the certificates in a Netscape certificate sequence

        openssl nseq -in nseq.pem -out certs.pem

       Create a Netscape certificate sequence

        openssl nseq -in certs.pem -toseq -out nseq.pem

NOTES
       The PEM encoded form uses the same headers and footers as a
       certificate:

        -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
        -----END CERTIFICATE-----

       A Netscape certificate sequence is a Netscape specific format that can
       be sent to browsers as an alternative to the standard PKCS#7 format
       when several certificates are sent to the browser: for example during
       certificate enrollment.  It is used by Netscape certificate server for
       example.

BUGS
       This program needs a few more options: like allowing DER or PEM input
       and output files and allowing multiple certificate files to be used.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2000-2017 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

       Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
       this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
       in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
       <https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.



1.1.1l                            2021-08-24                           NSEQ(1)
